



ADA Summary


Who knows 5 a day ?

We then looked at the top consumers of fruits and vegetables. We observe that they are mostly European.
Despite having normalized to the number of product per country, those results must be taken with a pinch
of salt as Open Food Fact is more contributed to by Europeans and thus some other regions might be lacking a lot of data.

FAT = ENERGY ?

Our next observation was focused on fat nutriment. When looking at the top 10 countries that consume
the most fat, we discovered that some of them were also in the top 10 sugar consumers. We were kind of surprised to discover
that Costa Rica tends to consume more fat than others, while the following countries are quite similar in their fat consumption.

SIMILAR COUNTRIES

Our last analysis treated how countries can be similar to each other.

A first comparison was made to find countries that are the closest to Switzerland, in terms of number of products sold.
Two kind of normalization were tested: the first one was to normalize with respect to the number of products sold in each country,
while the second method divides the number of products a country has in common with Switzerland by the total number of products sold in Switzerland. 
Depending on which normalization is chosen, the results are different: with the first one, Mali and Zimbabwe are the closest to Switzerland,
while with the second method, only France is similar to our country.


Another comparison was made to observe the similarity between all countries in the world. For this purpose, we have computed clusters of countries
based on their food nutriments. For each country, the nutriments values were defined on the median.
Using the elbow method and the Principal Component Analysis, we were able to find the ideal number of cluster and to determine which nutriment has
the most influence in the clustering. To visualize our clustering, we have used a Hierarchical Clustering Dendrogram.
We observed that some good number of clusters might be 3 or 4.
When plotting a visualization of countries' similarity, we surprisingly observe that some of them that are similar in proximity are not necessarily similar in food consumption !

